## Exam 2015/16

### Question 1

**(c)** `String`

`String` is not a primitive Java type.

### Question 2

**(b)** `compareTo`

Methods `getClass`, `equals` and `toString` are defined for all objects, since they are defined for `Object` and all objects are from class or descend from `Object`.

Method `compareTo` is defined under the `Comparable` interface.

### Question 3

**(e)** 22

Due to polymorphism, and since `obj` is considered a `C1` but it is actually a `C2`, the corresponding overload in `C2` is called. Also, `f` and `g` return strings, so adding them results in concatenation, not in mathematical addition.

### Question 4

**(b)** `fail`

`fail` is not even a Java keyword.

### Question 5

**(b)** Code coverage analysis tools like EclEmma are fundamental to conceive tests according to the test-driven development (TDD) approach.

Test-driven development is a process relying on the repetition of the development cycle: each requirement is turned into a very specific set of test cases, and code is improved until it passes. Coverage tools are especially unimportant in TDD since features are only developed to pass specific tests, so there is a general guarantee that almost all code is covered by the tests initially developed to satisfy a requirement.

### Question 6

**(e)** `HashMap<Estudante, TreeSet<Projeto>>`

| Option | Comment |
|--------|---------|
| **(a)** `TreeMap<Estudante, HashSet<Projeto>>` | `HashSet` is not sorted. |
| **(b)** `LinkedList<Estudante, ArrayList<Projeto>>` | Illegal statement, `LinkedList` accepts only one template variable. `ArrayList` is not sorted. |
| **(d)** `HashMap<Estudante, ArrayList<Projeto>>` | `ArrayList` is not sorted. |
| **(e)** `HashMap<Estudante, TreeSet<Projeto>>` | Maps each student to preferred projects, and sorts projects. |

### Question 7

**(e)** `JFrame`

### Question 8

**(a)** Serializable classes should be annotated with `@Serializable`.

Serializable classes should implement `Serializable`.

### Question 9

??

### Question 10

**(e)** The maximum number of threads in an Android application is equal to the number of processor cores.

This is false, since one may launch more threads than processor cores, but each core can handle only one thread at a time.

### Question 11

**(c)** Allows to determine which parts of the code consume the most execution time.

That is the definition of profiling a program.

### Question 12

??

### Question 13

**(d)** The reflexion mechanism allows adding methods to an existing class in runtime.

This is obviously false.

### Question 14

**(b)** `class C2<T> implements I1 extends C1 { private Set<C3> r3; private C4 r4; }`

### Question 15

**(b)** trigger, guard and effect

### Question 16

**(a)** Lifelines, messages and combined fragments.

### Question 17

**(b)** Strategy

### Question 18

**(b)** Template method

### Question 19

**(b)** Temporary field

[Temporary fields](https://refactoring.guru/smells/temporary-field) are those that are only used under certain circumstances, otherwise they're empty. Temporary fields are **not** temporary variables.

### Question 20

**(a)** [Move method](https://refactoring.guru/move-method) (to class `Position`)
